We just couldn't believe that the Japs had taken it upon themselves to bomb Pearl Harbor.
We couldn't really believe the seriousness of it.
It was just beyond our belief that they did as much damage as they did.
We were all listening and all hugging the radios.
How did life on the campus change soon after that?
Well, I don't think it changed a whole lot.
Did you all take things more seriously?
I would say so.
There was more of an incentive to stay in and
get a degree before you might have to go into the service.
Now, when did they go to the 12-month trimester?
Did that affect you?
That next summer.
That affected me because part of the requirement for a petroleum engineering degree was three months oil field experience.
And I learned one thing very important to my life.
If you want to get experience, you have to have a job.
If you want to get a job, you have to have experience.
And I worked for a poor boy job for twenty-two days, twelve hours a day, and got paid two and a half a day.
In the oil field?
In the oil field.
Where?
In Hebronville, Texas.
And after I got my twenty-two days experience, so I got four dollars an hour, and those were high wages.
high wages, but you had to have experience to get those kind of wages.
As you were doing that work, could you tell that the preparation you had had at A&M made a difference?
Oh, absolutely.
Sure, we would have drills on
on the oil field floor and that sort of thing.
We knew what tongs were and we knew what elevators were and Waukesha engines and all those sort of things.
Who were some of the people in petroleum engineering in that era here that were important?
Were there some great teachers?
Bob Whiting.
Of course, I was primarily a mechanical engineer, and so John George Hatch was always there.
What made him such a fine teacher?
I think it was his humor.
He never accepted problems.
He was always accepting challenges.
And he didn't see that any of the problems should prevent you from doing your job.
And he prepared you for the real world, didn't he?
Yes, he did.
A wonderful man.
This is an editor's note to go into this.
When I was dean of faculties at the commencement when Dr. Thompson retired.
This is Dr. JGH Thompson.
We had three or four of the retiring faculty to be a part of the official processional group up on the stage.
to honor them.
And when the first mechanical engineering senior came across the stage, he saw Dr. Thompson on the back row up on the stage, and he went through each of the rows of the chairs to shake his hand.
And every other mechanical engineer followed and did that.
Later, when the ceremony was over and we went into the letterman's lounge to take off our caps and gowns, two or three of the regents came over to ask me and Vice President Calhoun, why would those students go shake that man's hand that way?
And we both very proudly assured him it was because those students had such a deep respect
and gratitude for Dr. Thompson as being a splendid faculty member.
Am I correct that he also applied theory to reality?
Yeah.
Yep, he did.
Did he have a sense of humor?
Oh, man, yeah.
He always smiled.
And he'd say, you've got a problem?
What do you mean you've got a problem?
You mean a challenge?
He'd grin and laugh.
So then after the summer of 42, you come back here to A&M.
And as the war went on, did the routine of classes and student life change?
Well, I think it did.
The day was more crowded each day because you just felt that you had to really buckle down and do the job because it was serious business.
Right.
You mentioned Ensign Gay.
Please describe.
Well, Ensign Gay came by to tell us about the Battle of Midway, and he got out of
and he got seniors lined up and he gave them stripes.
And so he let everybody know that the senior Aggies were always senior to those that they left behind.
And so I guess we all gained respect for our seniors.
Now he had been shot down
during the battle, hadn't he, and had been picked up.
Yes, picked up.
And he was an Aggie.
Yes, sir.
He was a member of Sea Battery Coast Guard Territory.
Were there other notable visitors during your student days to the campus?
Well I just remember him primarily.
Was We've Never Been Licked, that was filmed after you?
No, no.
Is that?
I had to walk back and forth and across in front of this camera sixteen times to get myself in there one time.
About two seconds worth.
And how did you get to be one of those?
I just did it.
Oh, oh.
What's the other gal's name?
Who were the boys?
Ains?
Was it Robert Mitchum?
I think Robert Mitchum was one of them.
How long was the crew here?
Was it a good while?
Several months.
Did you all attempt any kind of good bull stunts or jokes?
I don't think so.
I don't recall that we did.
Do you remember when you first saw the movie?
Yep.
Where?
Well, I first saw it, I think I first saw it here.
And of course I've always, I've had a copy ever since.
Arthur O'Driscoll.
Did you all make any noise when you saw it?
Oh, sure.
Yee-haw, you know.
Aggies were always yelling, football games or rodeos or whatever.
All right, some of the traditions.
Do you remember first going to Silver Taps?
What impression did it make when you first went?
Well, that was a very serious thing, and we'd lost a life or several.
And it was very impressive, because all the lights went out all over campus.
And we would then have silver taps.
And in the darkness, you contemplate life and the future.
I think we were very serious-minded people.
Did anybody ever attempt any jokes or pranks during silver taps?
I don't think so.
I haven't ever gotten.
Then what about midnight yell practice?
Where was it held?
YMCA?
Where else?
Was it held at midnight?
Right before midnight.
Okay.
And what kind of goofy things did y'all do during Yale practice?
Oh, Lordy.
What kind of goofy things?
I don't think we were doing a lot of goofy things.
It was all very serious.
Do you remember going to Muster before World War II?
Did you go to, do you remember going to Muster while you were a student?
No.
All right.
Almost no one has remembered Muster until after World War II.
Well, I guess it might be the first Muster that I went to was in 1950.
Fort Knox, Kentucky.
I believe that's right.
Your senior ring.
Where'd you get it?
Where'd you pick it up?
Oh, my.
Where did I pick it up?
I think it was MSC.
No, no.
MSC wasn't built yet.
Oh, that's right.
I guess it was an old bookstore.
Do you remember what it cost?
Something like $45.
And now it's $350 minimum.
And how did you feel when you put that ring on?
Oh I was most pleased.
My girlfriend put a diamond in mine.
That made me really love that gal.
Do you have any ring stories where you're somewhere on the other side of the world and somebody sees it or you lost it and somebody found it?
Any good Aggie ring stories?
The only one that I recall is on this bus coming from Sarajevo, Yugoslavia, to the coast in Yugoslavia.
from Dallas, he's an architect, Hugo I think we called him, saw my ring and we became great friends there and we enjoyed the rest of the trip.
Was that during the war?
No, no.
Oh, after the war.
Did you ever lose it?
Never.
Well, I had one stolen from me.
got another one and then for a little while I had two rings.
And then I was skinning a catfish out at Camp Creek and the big ring was too big and I was skinning, throwing the skin out into the water and there went my ring.
And I paid $150 to get a guy with
Like they dredge channels.
What do you do then?
Well, we dredged for about four hours.
But he didn't find it.
Never did find it.
I also had a metal detector from the nautical institute here, Mr. Sam Bass.
George Bass.
Why are Aggie rings so treasured?
Because they're recognizable.
Because they mean a lot.
I mean, you worked four years to get that thing.
All right, your senior boots.
I still got mine.
Where'd you get them?
Lucchese.
San Antonio.
And I keep talking about getting them filled with concrete and using them as door stops, but so far I haven't done that.
Do you remember what they cost?
Oh, Lordy.
Was that like $50?
I think they were more like $75.
When you went through, did you all have final review when you were a junior?
Yeah, I believe we did.
Sure did.
And you put on those boots for the first time publicly.
How did you feel?
Felt great.
Felt real great.
step out in front of that outfit and call commands.
And that was really great.
Were you accompanying commander, your senior?
A battery commander.
Battery commander.
I haven't had anybody tell.
What are the responsibilities of being the commander?
Well, to try to get everybody to get along.
And they don't always get along.
Oh, Jack Andrews caused me a little trouble at one time.
But we got it taken care of out behind the dorm.
What were the kinds of situations that gave you the most trouble?
Smartin' off.
You know, not lining up or just being a mule head.
Was the misbehavior more often deliberate than accidental?
Yes.
Yeah, that's right.
What were the joys of being, the satisfactions of being the outfit CO?
Well to see the younger students progress and grow up and become more responsible in everything they did.
The fact that I got the best drilled sophomore medal, I was very proud of that.
Then when you get to be appointed first sergeant, and that means you're going to be battery commander later on, that was very important.
What was the routine that ended up with your being selected?
Was there an interview?
Was there a questionnaire?
No, it was just a matter of upperclassmen making an evaluation.
They did it themselves.
And I, of course, helped select the follow-on battery commander and first sergeant for the guys behind us.
But we'd just all get together and decide who might be the best qualified.
As you look back on it, do you think that process was appropriate?
Absolutely.
I think the corps helped you to learn to evaluate people and to learn to get along with other people and to learn to organize and to learn to select values.
I just think it was a great experience.
How much time did being the CO take?
Well, I don't know.
It seemed like to me we always had a greater outfit and we always enjoyed doing what we were doing.
I'll never forget fish day of course.
Yeah, describe fish day.
Oh man, that's when the freshman
had the opportunity to take on the sophomores or anybody up the line that they wanted to get even with or to get their attention.
And we had, after I came back in 1970, we had a reunion and we had five
movies of five different fish days.
One of them was before I got here, and then the last one through there.
And we showed those movies in one of our rooms.
Three of us rented three rooms right alongside of the swimming pool over there at what is now the dorm.
anyway we had we had drinks in one room we had dresses in i mean our clothes in another room and another room for movies and uh we just had a ball now when in terms of the calendar of the year when was fish day
It was in the spring.
In the spring?
Yeah.
Was it the same day every year?
No.
It was about the same time of the year, sort of when the trees started budding out.
Was it on a Saturday?
On a weekend.
I don't recall.
I think it was a Saturday.
We had a beer barrel and we had sandwiches and chips and stuff like that.
Did the fish pick on the outfit CO?
They picked on anybody they wanted to.
And there was not supposed to be any retaliation for any of that.
When you were a senior, do you remember any pranks played on you?
Well, they tried to drag me off the top of the hill.
I'd push them off, and I'd maybe get down in the mud, too.
Did they steal your footlocker?
No, I didn't.
No.
When I was first sergeant, I talked to some freshmen and told them that they really needed to get involved and do a lot of things.
And why didn't they haul off some of these sophomores that were causing them some problems?
And old Jack Smithers got me in there.
He said, what are you trying to do?
He was the battery commander at that time.
I said, you're a first sergeant.
You're supposed to help keep this outfit in good shape and disciplined.
And yet you told them to go do that.
Well, Jack, you know, there just weren't enough going on.
So we'd do something like that once in a while.
Describe how you were selected to be an RV member.
Ross volunteer.
How was I selected?
I have no idea how I was selected, except that I was selected and I was initiated in the old, what is now the, where you go and get your pictures.
Pavilion?
Yeah, pavilion.
What was the initiation like?
Oh, God, swallow oysters on a string and get your tail beat.
And about how many were in the RVs?
About 200, I guess.
And did you have to buy your uniform?
I think so.
Because it was the same uniform then as now, wasn't it?
All white?
All white.
Yeah, I'm sure I bought it.
What were some of the fancy things you and the other RVs did?
Well, welcome the governor, you know.
Did you all do that then?
Oh, sure.
Papio Daniel?
No, no, not Papio Daniel.
I don't recall.
I just don't really recall.
I'm trying to remember.
39 through 43.
See, he's elected in 38 and 40, and then he runs for the Senate in 42.
And Lyndon was ahead of him in the primary, and some late returns came in.
And I think he's followed by Coke Stephenson.
Well, then it had to be O'Daniel.
I don't recall Coke Stephenson.
And who was the commandant in those days?
George.
Welty.
W-E-L-T-Y?
Uh-huh.
Welty was the commandant, and he's the guy that gave the nine battery commanders in the Coastal Artillery Corps 20 demerits for calling off Reveille formation the day after fish day.
We all got called in on the carpet.
and said, you nine guys are supposed to be running this organization and you're not doing a good job.
You're calling off direct orders.
It's all going to go into your record.
We're going to put it right in your record, your military record.
It'll ruin your career.
All that kind of baloney.
That's when we did have to go out to the bullring as seniors behind the Patrol of Engineering.
All right, we're getting ready to kind of summarize this now.
As you look back on all of the years, what were the most important courses, academic courses?
Of course, you'd ask an engineer, and an engineer will tell you, well, it's all important.
OK.
I mean, I even took, Gib Gelchrist asked me to take a special course.
I had some extra time.
I had already taken a number of the hours required.
And he said, why don't you take philosophy?
And I took a course in philosophy, and I wrote him a paper on,
philosophy for engineers.
I told them I thought it was very important.
That you have to be philosophical, you have to evaluate characters, you have to know what motivates people, and all of that sort of thing.
Well, I came back in 1970.
I found that paper in his papers.
How nice.
Only I don't have it now.
Did he teach the course?
No, no, he did not.
Describe your impression of him as a person.
A great man, really a great man.
He was very calm and deliberate in everything he did.
What was he?
Was tall, very tall.
And always stood up straight as far as I was concerned.
Now, in your day, he was dean of engineering.
In my day, he was dean of engineering.
Fred Benson was dean of engineering when I came back.
Yeah, but Gilchrist had not yet become president.
I don't know.
And did you students speak?
Did you all see him much?
Say hello to him.
Every time we'd see him, we'd say hello to him.
He lived on the campus.
Yeah, he did.
A great guy.
So you all had a high respect for him.
High respect.
Who was the president then?
Do you remember?
Because I don't know.
Walton, I guess.
Walton.
It was Walton.
Didn't see much of him.
No.
In terms of the courses, were there some that were really hard?
English.
I don't recall any of them that were really hard, but you had to stick with it.
You had to study and you had to study and study and study to stay up.
In general, was the grading system fair and appropriate?
As far as I was concerned, it was.
Were there any easy courses you remember?
No.
I think if you stay with a course and you study all the time,
And keep up, don't get too far behind.
The course becomes easier as you learn and progress.
But there weren't any that were supposed to be giveaways to anybody?
I don't think any of them were giveaways.
If they could all be brought back, are there some of the faculty and advisors that you would be particularly wanting to thank?
John George Hatch Thompson, in particular.
Roy Wingren.
There's another one.
I guess the man taught us thermal.
Was he a good?
He was a good professor.
I see.
He was Mom, wasn't he?
Mom.
Did Wingren have a nickname?
I don't recall.
I haven't heard one.
Alphabet, of course.
Oh, I'm blank right now.
And faculty members, were they available if you ever, were they on the campus after class if you wanted to go by and chat with them?
Whenever you want to go see them, you had to let them know you wanted to come see them and they'd tell you when.
Okay, final review.
We're now, you're a senior.
Was there a final review when you graduated?
Yes.
Who came for commencement from your family?
My whole family.
My whole family came.
My girlfriend.
And this is, when did you graduate?
We graduated on the 19th of January, 1943.
And we were inducted into the Army on January the 16th, 1943, and got promoted to corporal right away and came back for graduation.
Then we left for OCS on the 4th of February.
We went back to Fort Sam Houston and were issued all our clothes and all of that stuff.
Got on the train in San Antonio and went through New Orleans and Atlanta, Georgia, and we went to Camp Davis, North Carolina.
How well did you think at the time you graduated?
How well did you think A&M had prepared you for the real world?
Well, I told you that our going to OCS was freshman year all over again, so we were well prepared for that.
And we were well thought of.
I think our military supervisors thought the Aggies were great.
What is it that creates Aggie spirit?
I think association and continued association, respect for each other and doing things together like Scott Kramer and I going to Houston and getting our Model A on fire and getting picked up by a Prairie View A&M student and coming back and turning him around.
Are there some events that are an important part of Aggie spirit?
file reviews, graduation, walking across Goddard Hall and finding a bill for $1.57 for a pane of glass.
All those sort of things are all built into
Let's see, and I forgot.
Describe Bonfire during your student days.
Oh, we had Bonfire out on Harrington Field and we didn't go out and cut great big trees.
We'd go get outhouses and we'd go get railroad ties and we'd go get old trees, but we didn't
forests of trees and that sort of thing.
It was mostly a trash fire.
And about how long did you all work on it?
Two or three weekends?
Oh, I guess we worked on it two or three weeks.
OK. Not just weekends.
And it was something to do.
It was another opportunity to work with guys.
What were the attitudes, ideas, habits?
What philosophy did you learn at A&M that's been important?
Well, don't get too discouraged about things.
I mean, look at the positive side of life and set your goals, whatever they might be, and don't look back and cry about your decisions.
I mean, look forward and do the best you can.
If you were hired today as a consultant to advise the A&M leadership, what advice would you give them as they try to plan the future success of this institution?